In this video, we will give a brief overview
of the R programming language. After our last video on Python, where we discussed
its wide adoption, you might be wondering why on earth you should consider learning
any other language. Well, according to the results of the 2019
Kaggle Data Science survey, which had over 10k respondents from around the world, learning
up to three languages can increase your salary! And R has a lot to offer you. Like Python, R is free to use, but it's a
GNU project -- instead of being open source, it's actually free software. So if Python is open source and R is free
software, what’s the difference? Well, Both open source and free software commonly
refer to the same set of licenses. Many open source projects use the GNU General
Public License, for example. Both open source and free software support
collaboration. In many cases (but not all), these terms can
be used interchangeably. The Open Source Initiative (OSI) champions
open source while the Free Software Foundation (FSF) defines free software. Open source is more business focused, while
free software is more focused on a set of values. Back to why you should learn R. Because this
is a free software project, you can use the language in the same way that you contribute
to open source, and it allows for public collaboration and private and commercial use. Plus, R is another language supported by a
wide global community of people passionate about making it possible to use the language
to solve big problems. Who is R for? It's most often used by statisticians, mathematicians,
and data miners for developing statistical software, graphing, and data analysis. The language’s array-oriented syntax makes
it easier to translate from math to code, especially for someone with no or minimal
programming background. According to Kaggle’s Data Science and Machine
Learning Survey, most folks learn R when they're a few years into their data science career,
but it remains a welcoming language to those who don’t have a software programming background. R is popular in academia but companies that
use R include IBM, Google, Facebook, Microsoft, Bank of America, Ford, TechCrunch, Uber, and
Trulia. ● R has become the world’s largest repository
of statistical knowledge. ● As of 2018, R has more than 15,000 publicly
released packages, making it possible to conduct complex exploratory data analysis. ● R integrates well with other computer
languages, such as C++, Java, C, .Net, and Python. ● Common mathematical operations such as
matrix multiplication work straight out of the box. ● R has stronger object-oriented programming
facilities than most statistical computing languages. There are many ways to connect with other
R users around the globe. Communities such as user!, WhyR?, SatRdays,
and R-Ladies are all great to connect with. And you can also check out the R project website
for R conferences and events.